CIM(1)			    General Commands Manual			CIM(1)



NAME
       cim - Compile Simula programs into C


SYNOPSIS
       cim [ options ] file ...

DESCRIPTION
       GNU Cim is the Simula compiler that compiles into C. The C program will
       then be compiled with cc , and linked with other modules.

       GNU Cim will accept one Simula program and other none  Simula  modules.
       The  specified Simula program will be compiled and linked with the mod‐
       ules. If a main Simula program is compiled then it  will	 be  automatic
       linked  with  the  Simula  modules that it uses. If a separate Class or
       Procedure is compiled, then the linking will be supressed.

OPTIONS
       The following options are accepted by the cim command:

       -a     Try to produce an atr-file even if an error occurs.  Compare the
	      produced	atr-file with the atr-file produced from previous com‐
	      pilation and if they differ return an error status  code.	  With
	      use  of this option it is possible to have external modules with
	      circular dependencies. You will then need	 to  compile  all  the
	      modules  with  this  option  until no error status codes are re‐
	      turned. Then you should do a final compilation with option -p or
	      option  -d. To get this to work it is important that the topmost
	      external head does not contain any external declaration that  is
	      part of the circular dependency. Such external declarations must
	      be placed in an external head that comes after the first	class-
	      or procedure decraration.

       -b     The following argument will be parsed to the CC-command.

       -B     The following argument will be parsed to the link-command.

       -c     Supress linking of the complete program.

       -Cname Set the name of the C compiler.

       -d     Compare the produced c-code with the code produced from previous
	      compilation and if they are equal then touch the object-file in‐
	      stead of compiling the c-code.

       -Dname Define a symbol name.

       -e     On  systems that support dynamic linking, this  prevents linking
	      with the shared libraries.  On other systems, this option has no
	      effect.

       -E     Run only the preprocessor and output the result to standard out‐
	      put.

       -g     Make the C compiler produce debugging information.  This	option
	      is useful for debugging the generated code.

       -G     Invoke the Gnu Project C compiler instead of the standard C com‐
	      piler.  This option is useful if the standard C  compiler	 don't
	      generate correct code.

       -h     Print a summary of the options to `cim', and exit.

       -H     Omit  line  number  information in the  compiled	program.  This
	      will  make the program smaller and faster.

       -I dir Use the Simula include file located in directory dir instead  of
	      the standard directory.

       -llibrary
	      Link  with object library library.  This option is parsed to the
	      link-command.

       -L dir Use the Simula library located in directory dir instead  of  the
	      standard directory.

       -m     The memory pool size may be set at runtime by an option -mn.

       -mn    Set the initial memory pool size to n mega bytes.

       -Mn    Set the maximal memory pool size to n mega bytes.

       -N     Only link the specifiede files.

       -o     The  following  argument	is  the	 name of the output executable
	      file.

       -p     If supported for the target machines, generate position-indepen‐
	      dent code,  suitable for use in a shared library.

       -P     Only link the specifiede files.

       -q     Run the compiler in quiet mode.

       -s     Only C-compile and link the specified files.

       -S     Run the source file trough Simula-compiler, only.

       -R     Recompile the module using the same timestamp.

       -t     Do  not  remove  temporary  files. If a main program is compiled
	      with option -r, then the executable file will be removed	unless
	      this option or option -T is specified.

       -Uname Remove any initial definition of the symbol name (Inverse of the
	      -D option).

       -v     Run the compiler in verbose mode.

       -V     Print the version number of Cim and exit.

       -w     Do not print warnings.

FILES
       file   Executable file.

       file.a Library of source files, attribute files and object files.   In‐
	      clude  this simula library when compiling and linking.  The sim‐
	      ula library is created with ar(1V) and  ranlib(1).   All	source
	      and .atr files should be placed before .o files in the archive.

       file.o Object file.

       file.c Simula-compiler output file.

       file.h Output file that is included in file.c.

       file.sim
	      Simula source file.

       file   File  names without an extension are assumed to be shorthand no‐
	      tation for the corresponding .sim file.

       /usr/local/lib/libcim.a
	      Simula library that contains the environment,  Run  Time	System
	      and  class Simset and Simulation.	 The source code to Simset and
	      Simulation is also included, so these parts can be compiled  us‐
	      ing compiler directive %include.

       /usr/local/include/cim.h
	      Include file for the produced C-code.

SE ALSO
       cc(1), ld(1), ar(1V), lorder(1), topsort(1), ranlib(1)

       Standard Simula, SS 636114.  The Simula Standards Group, August 1986.

       Viderefoering  og  testing av et portabelt Simula-system.  Hovedoppgave
       til cand.scient.-graden av Terje	 Mjoes.	  Institutt  for  informatikk,
       Universitetet i Oslo, April 1989.

       Et portabelt Simula-system bygget paa C.	 Hovedoppgave til cand.scient-
       graden av Sverre Johansen.  Institutt for informatikk, Universitetet  i
       Oslo, Mai 1987.


DIAGNOSTICS
       The  diagnostics	 produced  by  the  Simula compiler are intended to be
       self-explanatory.


BUGS
       Bugs should be reported to bug-cim@gnu.org.


AUTHOR
       Sverre Hvammen Johansen, Department of Informatics, University of Oslo.




				  13 Jan 1989				CIM(1)
